Source: Canvas FAQ for Students
URL: https://kb.wisc.edu/luwmad/93957
Fetched: 2026-06-07

Canvas - Frequently Asked Questions for Students [UW-Madison] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to the main content Canvas - Frequently Asked Questions for Students [UW-Madison] This document answers frequently asked questions for UW-Madison students using Canvas.   
 What is Canvas? 
 
 Canvas is UW-Madison’s learning management system (LMS). You will use Canvas to view course materials, submit assignments and quizzes, and view grades for many of your UW-Madison courses. 
 
 How do I get to Canvas? 
 
 Log into  https://canvas.wisc.edu  with your NetID credentials. 
 
 Why am I unable to log into Canvas? 
 
 If you are a UW-Madison student, your Canvas account will be created automatically and linked with your NetID. If you are unable to log into Canvas: 
 
 Allow a waiting period of up to 24 hours if you have a new NetID. Canvas accounts for new NetIDs are created in an overnight process, so if you have just  activated your NetID , you may not be able to access Canvas for up to 24 hours.  
 Confirm that you are able to access other UW-Madison resources, such as My-UW ( https://my.wisc.edu ). If you can’t log into other services, the problem maybe with your NetID account. Try  resetting your NetID password  or contact the DoIT Help Desk for assistance.  
 Make sure your computer or mobile device meets the  minimum operating standards for Canvas  and that you are using a recommended browser.  
 Check the  DoIT Outages page . If there is a widespread problem with Canvas, it will be posted as an outage. 
 
 If you are an applicant or an external student, you may not have a NetID or your NetID may not be automatically eligible for Canvas. If you need to access a course in Canvas, your course instructor or program administrator may need to  request a Canvas account  for you.  
 
  Can I email other students from Canvas? 
 No: for privacy reasons, Canvas does not show students the email addresses of other students. However, you can  message  other students using the Canvas  inbox , found on the menu bar on the left side of each page. The inbox is not tied to email, so the student will only see the message in Canvas, unless they enable notifications for when they receive a new message. 
 How do I access my courses in Canvas? 
 
 By default, your current courses will appear on your  Canvas Dashboard .  
 To access past courses, select the  Courses  item from the main menu and go to  All Courses.  See  How do I view all my Canvas courses?  from Instructure for more information. 
 Alternatively, you can access your courses through the Canvas tile in MyUW.  
 
 Why aren't all of my courses showing up in Canvas? 
 
 You may not be able to access your current semester’s courses in Canvas if: 
 
 You recently registered for the course. It may take up to 24 hours for new enrollments to be added to Canvas. 
 Your instructor has not published the Canvas course yet. As a student, you may see an unpublished course listed on your dashboard or  Courses  page. However, you will not be able to open it until the instructor publishes the course.Your instructor may be waiting to publish the course because they are still making content updates or for a variety of other reasons. 
 Your instructor is not using Canvas. Contact your instructor to confirm whether or not they are using Canvas to post online course materials. 
 
 For any other problems with accessing your course, contact the  DoIT Help Desk . 
 
 Where can I find out more about Canvas? 
 
 Instructure, the company that makes Canvas, has extensive documentation. Check out the  Canvas Student Getting Started Resources  or  search the Instructure Community  for answers to specific questions. 
 Visit the  Learn@UW KnowledgeBase  for information about Canvas issues that are unique to UW-Madison. 
 
 How can I get help with a technical problem in Canvas? 
 
 Contact the  DoIT Help Desk  for assistance. 
 Keywords: faqs canvas log in login can't access access canvas.wisc.edu courses NetID dashboard courses netID login email address    We appreciate your suggestion. Thank you! Doc ID: 93957 Owned by: Learn@UW Madison in  Learn@UW Created: 2019-08-20 Updated: 2026-03-30 Sites: DoIT Help Desk, Learn@UW   1       0       Comment   Suggest new doc
