Source: Microsoft 365 MFA Setup
URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/set-up-your-microsoft-365-sign-in-for-multi-factor-authentication-ace1d096-61e5-449b-a875-58eb3d74de14
Fetched: 2026-06-07

Set up your Microsoft 365 sign-in for multi-factor authentication - Microsoft Support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign in with Microsoft 
 Sign in or create an account. 
 
 
 Hello, 
 Select a different account. 
 
 
 You have multiple accounts 
 Choose the account you want to sign in with. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Applies To Microsoft 365 admin   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Once your admin  enables  your organization, and your account, for multi-factor authentication (MFA) you have to set up your user account to use it. This should only take a minute or so. 
 
 Tip:  Want to know more about multi-factor authentication? See  What is: Multifactor authentication. 
 
 By setting up MFA, you add an extra layer of security to your Microsoft 365 account sign-in. For example, you first enter your password and, when prompted, you also type a dynamically generated verification code provided by an authenticator app or sent to your phone. 
 
 
 Sign in to Microsoft 365 with your work or school account with your password like you normally do. After you choose  Sign in , you'll be prompted for more information. 
 
 
 Choose  Next . 
 
 
 The default authentication method is to use the free Microsoft Authenticator app. If you have it installed on your mobile device, select  Next  and follow the prompts to add this account. If you don't have it installed there is a link provided to download it. 
	If you would rather use SMS messages sent to your phone instead, select  I want to set up a different method . Microsoft 365 will ask for your mobile number, then send you an SMS message containing a 6-digit code to verify your device. 
	  
 
 Tip:  For a faster, and more secure, experience we recommend using an authenticator app rather than SMS verification. 
 
 
 
 Once you complete the instructions to specify your additional verification method, the next time you sign in to Microsoft 365, you'll be prompted to provide the additional verification information or action, such as typing the verification code provided by your authenticator app or sent to you by text message. 
	  
 
 Note:  Generally you'll only need the additional verification method the first time you sign into a new app or device, or after you've changed your password. You probably won't be asked for the additional verification code on a daily basis, unless your organization requires it. 
 
 
 
 If you have applications that don't support multi-factor verification, you must set up an app password. See  manage app passwords  for more information. 
 
 See also 
 
 
 
 Sign in to Microsoft 365 with multi-factor authentication 
 
 
 
 
 Fix common problems with multi-factor authentication 
 
 
 
 
 Use Microsoft Authenticator with Microsoft 365 
 
 
 
 
 Change how you get multi-factor authentication codes 
 
 
 
 
 Admins: Set up multi-factor authentication for Microsoft 365 users 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Need more help? 
 
 
 
 Want more options? 
 
 
 
 
 Explore subscription benefits, browse training courses, learn how to secure your device, and more. 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft 365 subscription benefits 
 
 
 
 Microsoft 365 training 
 
 
 
 Microsoft security 
 
 
 
 Accessibility center 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                Communities help you ask and answer questions, give feedback, and hear from experts with rich knowledge.
             
 
 
 
 
 Ask the Microsoft Community 
 
 
 
 Microsoft Tech Community 
 
 
 
 Windows Insiders 
 
 
 
 Microsoft 365 Insiders 
 
 
 
 
 
 Find solutions to common problems or get help from a support agent. 
 
 
 
 
 Online support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for your feedback! 
 
 
 
 
 ×
