Source: Protect yourself from phishing
URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/protect-yourself-from-phishing-0c7ea947-ba98-3bd9-7184-430e1f860a44
Fetched: 2026-06-07

Protect yourself from phishing | Microsoft Support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign in with Microsoft 
 Sign in or create an account. 
 
 
 Hello, 
 Select a different account. 
 
 
 You have multiple accounts 
 Choose the account you want to sign in with. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Protect yourself from phishing 
 
 Phishing (pronounced: fishing) is an attack that attempts to steal your money, or your identity, by getting you to reveal personal information -- such as credit card numbers, bank information, or passwords -- on websites that pretend to be legitimate. Cybercriminals typically pretend to be reputable companies, friends, or acquaintances in a fake message, which contains a link to a phishing website. 
 
 Select the headings below for more information 
 Learn to spot a phishing message 
 Phishing is a popular form of cybercrime because of how effective it is. Cybercriminals have been successful using emails, text messages, and direct messages on social media or in video games, to get people to respond with their personal information. The best defense is awareness and knowing what to look for. 
 Here are some ways to recognize a phishing email: 
 
 Urgent call to action or threats  - Be suspicious of emails and Teams messages that claim you must click, call, or open an attachment  immediately . Often, they'll claim you have to act now to claim a reward or avoid a penalty.  Creating a false sense of urgency  is a common trick of phishing attacks and scams. They do that so that you won't think about it too much or consult with a trusted advisor who may warn you. 
 
 Tip 
 Whenever you see a message calling for immediate action take a moment, pause, and look carefully at the message. Are you sure it's real? Slow down and be safe. 
 
 
 First time, infrequent senders, or senders marked [External]  - While it's not unusual to receive an email or Teams message from someone for the first time, especially if they are outside your organization, this can be a sign of phishing. Slow down and take extra care at these times. When you get an email or a Teams message from somebody you don't recognize, or that Outlook or Teams identifies as a new sender, take a moment to examine it  extra  carefully using some of the measures below. 
 
 Spelling and bad grammar  - Professional companies and organizations usually have an editorial and writing staff to make sure customers get high-quality, professional content. If an email message has obvious spelling or grammatical errors, it might be a scam. These errors are sometimes the result of awkward translation from a foreign language, and sometimes they're deliberate in an attempt to evade filters that try to block these attacks. 
 
 Generic greetings  - An organization that works with you should know your name and these days it's easy to personalize an email. If the email starts with a generic "Dear sir or madam" that's a warning sign that it might not really be your bank or shopping site. 
 
 Mismatched email domains  - If the email claims to be from a reputable company, like Microsoft or your bank, but the email is being sent from another email domain like Gmail.com, or microsoftsupport.ru it's probably a scam. Also be watchful for very subtle misspellings of the legitimate domain name. Like micros0ft.com where the second "o" has been replaced by a 0, or rnicrosoft.com, where the "m" has been replaced by an "r" and a "n". These are common tricks of scammers. 
 
 Outlook shows you a banner that says we could not verify the sender  - Outlook shows you this banner when something in the email headers is suspicious. Perhaps the email had failed  authentication using commonly accepted internet standards . Perhaps the From field may have a value that deviates from industry standards in order to misrepresent the real sender and trick the email server. Whatever it is, you should remain cautious about the email content. 
 
 
 
 
 Suspicious links or unexpected attachments  - If you suspect that an email message, or a message in Teams is a scam,  don't open any links or attachments  that you see. Instead, hover your mouse over, but  don't click  the link. Look at the address that pops up when you hover over the link. Ask yourself if that address matches the link that was typed in the message. In the following example, resting the mouse over the link reveals the  real  web address in the box with the yellow background. The string of numbers looks  nothing like  the company's web address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tip 
 On Android long-press the link to get a properties page that will reveal the true destination of the link. On iOS do what Apple calls a "Light, long-press". 
 
 
 
 Cybercriminals can also tempt you to visit fake websites with other methods, such as text messages or phone calls. If you're feeling threatened or being pressured, it may be time to hang up, find the phone number of the establishment and call back when your head is clear. Sophisticated cybercriminals set up call centers to automatically dial or text numbers for potential targets. These messages will often include prompts to get you to enter a PIN number or some other type of personal information. 
 For more information see  How to spot a "fake order" scam. 
 
 Note 
 
 Are you an administrator or IT pro? 
 If so, you should be aware that phishing attempts may be targeting your Teams users. Take action.  Learn more about what to do about it here . 
 If you have a Microsoft 365 subscription with Advanced Threat Protection you can enable ATP Anti-phishing to help protect your users.  Learn more 
 
 
 If you get a phishing email or message in Teams 
 
 Never click any links or attachments in suspicious emails or Teams messages. If you receive a suspicious message from an organization and worry the message could be legitimate, go to your web browser and open a new tab. Then go to the organization's website from your own saved favorite, or via a web search. Talk to them using official numbers or emails from their site. Call the organization using a phone number listed on the back of a  membership card , printed on a  bill or statement , or that you find on the  organization's official website . 
 If the suspicious message  appears  to come from a person you know, contact that person via  another means  like by text message or a phone call to confirm it. 
 Report the message (see below). 
 Delete it. 
 
 How to report a phishing scam 
 
 Microsoft 365 Outlook  and  Outlook.com  - With the suspicious message selected, choose  Report > Report phishing  from the ribbon. This is the fastest way to report the message, remove it from your Inbox, and improve our filters so you get fewer of these messages in the future. For more information, see  Report phishing . 
 Teams messages  - If you're in Microsoft Teams, hover over the malicious message without selecting it, and then select  More options > More actions > Report this message . When asked to 'Report this message' choose the option  Security risk - Spam, phishing, malicious content is selected, and then select Report.  Click the  Report  button. 
 
 If you see signs of a scam and are suspicious of a message, better safe than sorry. Report it! 
 
 Note 
 If you use an email client other than Outlook, include the phishing message as an attachment in a new email to phish@office365.microsoft.com. Don't forward the suspicious email; we need the original email as an attachment so we can examine the message headers. 
 
 If you're on a suspicious website: 
 While you're on a suspicious site in Microsoft Edge, select the  Settings and More ⁠(…)⁠  icon towards the top right corner of the window, then  Help and feedback  >  Report unsafe site.  Or  click here . 
 
 Tip 
 ALT+F will open the  Settings and More  menu. 
 
 For more information see  Securely browse the web in Microsoft Edge. 
 What to do if you think you've been successfully phished 
 If you're suspicious that you may have inadvertently fallen for a phishing attack there are a few things you should do. 
 
 While it's fresh in your mind write down as many details of the attack as you can recall. In particular try to note any information such as usernames, account numbers, or passwords you may have shared, and where the attack happened such as in Teams, or Outlook. 
 Immediately change the passwords on all affected accounts, and anywhere else that you might use the same password. While you're changing passwords you should create unique passwords for each account, and you might want to see  Create and use strong passwords. 
 Confirm that you have multifactor authentication (also known as two-step verification) turned on for every account you can. See  What is: Multifactor authentication 
 If this attack affects your work or school accounts, you should notify the IT support folks at your work or school of the possible attack. If you shared information about your credit cards or bank accounts, you may want to contact those companies as well to alert them to possible fraud. 
 If you've lost money, or been the victim of identity theft, don't hesitate,  report it to local law enforcement . The details in step 1 will be very helpful to them. 
 
 See also 
 The keys to the kingdom - securing your devices and accounts 
 How malware can infect your computer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for your feedback! 
 
 
 
 
 ×
